add phi silica finetune doc (#9059)
Microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/intelligentapps/finetune.md

> # LoRA Fine-Tuning for Phi Silica

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# LoRA fine-tuning for Phi Silica
```

Low Rank Adaptation (LoRA) can be utilized to fine-tune the [Phi Silica model](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/ai/apis/phi-silica) to enhance its performance for your specific use-case. By using LoRA to optimize Phi Silica, Microsoft Windows local language model, you can achieve more accurate results. This process involves training a LoRA adapter and then applying it during inference to improve the model's accuracy.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Phi Silica features are not available in China.

## Prerequisites

- You have identified a use case for enhancing the response of Phi Silica.
- You have chosen an evaluation criteria to decide what a 'good response' is.
- You have tried the Phi Silica APIs and they do not meet your evaluation criteria.

## Train your adapter

To train a LoRA adapter for fine-tuning the Phi Silica model with Windows 11, you must first generate a dataset that the training process will use.

### Generate a dataset for use with a LoRA adapter

> To generate a dataset, you will need to split data into two files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a dataset, you need to split the data into two files:
```

Every message object requires two fields:

- `content`: the text of the message.
- `role`: either `"user"` or `"assistant"`, indicating the sender.

See the following examples:

```json
{"messages": [{"content": "Hello, how do I reset my password?", "role": "user"}, {"content": "To reset your password, go to the settings page and click 'Reset Password'.", "role": "assistant"}]}

{"messages": [{"content": "Can you help me find nearby restaurants?", "role": "user"}, {"content": "Sure! Here are some restaurants near your location: ...", "role": "assistant"}]}

{"messages": [{"content": "What is the weather like today?", "role": "user"}, {"content": "Today's forecast is sunny with a high of 25°C.", "role": "assistant"}]}
```

Training tips:

- There is no comma needed at the end of each sample line.
- Include as many high-quality and diverse examples as possible. For best results, collect at least a few thousand training samples in your `train.json` file.
- The `test.json` file can be smaller, but should cover the types of interactions you expect your model to handle.

> Create `train.json` and `test.json` files with one JSON object per line, each containing a brief back-and-forth conversation between a user and an assistant. The quality and quantity of your data will greatly affect the effectiveness of your LoRA adapter.

Reviewer: Should this also be a bulleted list item?

Author: > Should this also be a bulleted list item?

Good catch! Changed to a bulleted list item

### Training a LoRA adapter

> To train a LoRA adapter, you will first need the follow required prerequisites:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To train a LoRA adapter, you need the following required prerequisites:
```

- [Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/) with available quota in [Azure Container Apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/overview).
    - We recommend using A100 GPUs or better to efficiently run a fine-tuning job.
    - [Check that you have available quota in the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/). If you'd like help finding your quota, see [View Quotas](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/quotas/view-quotas#view-quota-details).

After the prerequisites, follow these steps to create workspace and start a fine-tuning job:

1. Navigate to **Model Tools > Fine-tuning**.

2. Select "New Project".

3. Select "microsoft/phi-silica" from the Model Catalog.

4. Select "Next".

> 5. A dialog box will appear asking you to select a Project Folder and enter a Project Name - a new VS Code windows will open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the dialog, select a Project Folder and enter a Project Name. A new VS Code window will open for the project.
```

> ![Screenshot of creating fine-tuning project in AITK.](./images/finetune/create-finetuning-project.png)

Author: fixed

6. Select "LoRA" from the Method list.

> ![Screenshot of selecting LoRA method.](./images/finetune/select-finetuning-method-lora.png)

Author: fixed

7. Under **Data > Training Dataset name** and **Test Dataset name**, select your `train.json` and `test.json` files.

8. Select "Run with Cloud".

> ![Screenshot of filling fine-tuning job parameters.](./images/finetune/fill-finetuning-job-parameters.png)

Reviewer: Indent screenshot

> 9. A dialog box will appear asking you to select the Microsoft account with which to access your Azure subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. In the dialog, select the Microsoft account with which to access your Azure subscription.
```

10. Once your account is selected, you will need to select a Resource Group from the subscription dropdown menu.

> 11. You will now see that your fine-tuning job has successfully started, along with a Job Status. Use the Refresh button to manually update status. It typically takes an average of 45 - 60 minutes for a fine-tuning job to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Notice that your fine-tuning job successfully starts and shows a job status. Use the **Refresh** button to manually update the status. It typically takes an average of 45 - 60 minutes for a fine-tuning job to complete.
```

12. Once the job has completed, you will have the option to download the newly trained LoRA adapter by selecting the "Download" button and selecting "Show Metrics" to check the fine-tuning metrics.

> ![Screenshot of downloading adapter and showing metrics](./images/finetune/download-adapter-and-show-metrics.png)

Reviewer: Indent screenshot

Author: fixed

| Parameter name | Min   | Max    | Distribution  |
| -------------- | ----- | ------ | ------------- |
| learning_rate  | 1e-4  | 1e-2   | Log-uniform   |
| weight_decay   | 1e-5  | 1e-1   | Log-uniform   |
| adam_beta1     | 0.9   | 0.99   | Uniform       |
| adam_beta2     | 0.9   | 0.999  | Uniform       |
| adam_epsilon   | 1e-9  | 1e-6   | Log-uniform   |
| num_warmup_steps | 0   | 10000  | Uniform       |
| lora_dropout   | 0     | 0.5    | Uniform       |

We also search over the learning rate scheduler, choosing one of linear_with_warmup or cosine_with_warmup. (If the num_warmup_steps parameter is set to 0, then you can equivalently use the linear or cosine options.)

The learning rate, learning rate scheduler and number of warmup steps all interact with each other. Keeping two fixed and varying the third will give you better insights into how they change the output of training on your dataset.

The weight decay and LoRA dropout parameters are there to help to control overfitting. If you see that your adapter is not generalising well from your training set to your evaluation set, try increasing the values of these parameters.

> The adam_ parameters affect how the Adam optimizer behaves during the training steps. For more information on that optimizer see, for example, the Pytorch documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `adam_ parameters` affect how the Adam optimizer behaves during the training steps. For more information on that optimizer see, for example, the PyTorch documentation.
```

Many of the other parameters exposed are analogous to their equivalently named counterparts in the PEFT library. For more information on those, see the transformers documentation.

### Data hyperparameters

The data hyperparameters train_nsamples and test_nsamples control how many samples to take for training and testing respectively. Using more samples from your training set is normally a good idea. Using more test samples will give you test metrics that are less noisy, but each evaluation run will take longer.

> The train_batch_size and test_batch_size parameters control how many samples should be used in each batch for training and testing, respectively. You can normally use more batches for testing than training, because running a test example takes less GPU memory than a training example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `train_batch_size` and `test_batch_size` parameters control how many samples should be used in each batch for training and testing, respectively. You can normally use more batches for testing than training, because running a test example takes less GPU memory than a training example.
```

The train_seqlen and test_seqlen parameters control how long the train and test sequences can be. Generally, the longer the better until you hit GPU memory limits. The defaults should give a good balance.

### Choosing a system prompt

> The strategy we have found works well when choosing a system prompt to train with is to keep it fairly simple (1 or 2 sentences) while still encouraging the model to produce output in the format that you want. We have also found that using a slightly different system prompt for training and inference can improve results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The strategy we have found that works well when choosing a system prompt to train with, is to keep it fairly simple (1 or 2 sentences) while still encouraging the model to produce output in the format that you want. We have also found that using a slightly different system prompt for training and inference can improve results.
```

      },
      {
        "name": "eval_accumulation_steps",
        "type": "Optional",
        "defaultValue": null,
        "info": "Number of predictions steps to accumulate before moving the tensors to the CPU.",
        "label": "eval accumulation steps"
      },
      {
        "name": "eval_delay",
        "type": "Optional",
        "defaultValue": 0,
        "info": "Number of epochs or steps to wait for before the first evaluation can be performed, depending on the eval_strategy.",
        "label": "eval delay"
      },
      {
        "name": "weight_decay",
        "type": "float",
        "defaultValue": 0.0,
        "info": "Weight decay for AdamW if we apply some.",
        "label": "weight decay"
      },
      {
        "name": "max_grad_norm",
        "type": "float",
        "defaultValue": 1.0,
        "info": "Max gradient norm.",
        "label": "max grad norm"
      },
      {
        "name": "gradient_checkpointing",
        "type": "bool",
        "defaultValue": false,
        "info": "If True, use gradient checkpointing to save memory at the expense of slower backward pass.",
        "label": "gradient checkpointing"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

> ## How to modify filled Azure subscription and Resource group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Modify the Azure subscription and resource group
```

If you want to modify the Azure subscription and Resource group previously set, you can update or remove them in the `<your_project_path>/model_lab.workspace.provision.config` file.

> ## How to inference Phi Silica with adatper

Author: fixed
